{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19380\viewh10880\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 There are 3 iOS design themes that differentiate iOS from other platforms. \
Clarity: this is basically how stuff like negative space, color, fonts and graphics help bring focus on the main content without making the screen too cluttered.\
Deference: this is ability to interact with the content without much difficulty.\
Depth: this is the ability to have content layered over each other and the user being able to easily guide through the transitions.\
\
While coding an app, we have to make keep in mind some design principles. We have to make sure the users are able to manipulate the screen directly this enhances the understanding and engages the the user. We should be able to acknowledge feedback actions so we know how the user is feeling about using the app. Also we have to make sure the user is able physically interact with the screen in form of click and drag, toggle switches, move sliders etc this helps the user learn more quickly. Finally we have to make sure the user is in control of the app, not the other way around. We can guide the user on what is a desirable action but ultimately the decision should be the Users\'92.\
\
App Store Review Guidelines \
Basically the review process is where Apple deems your app to be fit to be showcased in their App Store available to millions of users worldwide. They pride themselves in providing a safe environment for kids. They want to make sure the app you submit is an app that is an app that adheres to the not only legal guidelines but also moral guidelines. The submitted app should be accepting of differing opinions and not crossing a line. Also the no type of cheating should take place whether it be trying to get by the review process, stealing user data manipulating ratings or app discover otherwise they will remove the app and yourself from their developer program. The App Review process is there to prevent not only any faulty apps to make their way on to the appstore but to also prevent apps that might not be socially acceptable or may cause harm.\
\
}